# MelaNet: A Deep Dense Attention Network for Melanoma Detection in Dermoscopy Images

## Abstract
Skin cancer is the most common cancer worldwide, with melanoma being the most deadly form. Dermoscopy is a skin imaging modality that has demonstrated improvement for diagnosis of skin cancer compared to unaided visual inspection. However, clinicians should receive adequate training for those improvements to be realized. The success of deep learning has been witnessed as a promising technique for computer-aided biomedical image analysis. In this paper, we develop a deep neural network, i.e., MelaNet that can detect 9 different diagnostic categories of skin lesions to tackle the tasks in the ISIC Challenge 2019. MelaNet is formulated by two 169-layer dense attention networks trained on the dermoscopy images of ISIC Challenge 2019, a publicly available dermoscopy image dataset, containing 25,331 dermoscopy images with 8 diseases. We design novel dense attention block to build the dense attention networks. Such dense attention network is expected to learn more informative and discriminative deep features by fusing local and global information of images. Besides, we extend MelaNet to detect an additional outlier disease not represented in the training data through fusing multi-class classification and multi-label classification, We build an ensemble model of 4 MelaNets to further improve melanoma detection performance. These models are evaluated on validation dataset using a normalized multi-class accuracy metric. We find that MelaNet achieves state-of-the-art performance and outperforms human experts on the target task. Results of the ensemble model on ISIC2019 test dataset are eventually submitted to ISIC2019 Challenge.
